# Why a Database Management System (DBMS)?
- Why write a database yourselves when you can used an optimized manager?
	- The data structure is a heavily optimized (Binary Tree called B+ Tree), which also supports reliability, concurrency, logging, etc.
# Anatomy of a Database Management System
1. Queries
2. **Query Processor**
	- Parser, Query Rewrite, Optimizer (knowns what is fastest to filter first), Executor (does the query)
2. Process Manager
	- Admission Control, Connection Manager (dis/allows queries)
2. Shared Utilities
	- Memory Manager, Disk Space Manager, Replication Services (data sync between servers), Admin Utilities
3. **Transactional Storage Manager**
	- Access Methods/Index Structure (aka B+ Tree), Buffer Manager (for the cache hits based on queries which OS doesn't know), Lock Manager (concurrency), Log Manager (for recovery)
4. Data
---
# Key Concepts
- Data Model
- Schema (e.g. column of student ID as int) vs Data (e.g. 1029491)
- 2 parts
	- Data Defining Language (DDL) to create the table
	- Data Manipulation or Query Language (DML) for querying
# Key People / Dev Roles
- DBMS Implementer
- Database Designer
- Database App Dev
- Database Admin
---
# Components of a Database System
1. User
2. Database Application (e.g. Web UI)
3. DBMS (program that reads/writes to databases)
4. Databases
# What is a Database Model?
- Model consists of
	- Entities (e.g. football teams & games)
	- Relationships (e.g. The Patriots are playing the Superbowl)
		- One to One
		- One to Many
		- Many to One
		- Many to Many
	- Even active components (e.g. "business logic")
# Why Databases?
- Why not just use flat files like txt on OS?
	- Because it sucks. No filtering, no duplication checking, no bad user data.
	- A Database will reduce redundancy and inconsistency.
		- John Smith VS J. Smith, a txt/csv file will suck dick.
- Data Integrity
	- Concurrency
	- Resiliency (logging)
	- Checks (for bad inputs)
	- Security (authentication)
## Databases Examples
- Doctor Appointments: 1 user, ~1000 rows for appointments
- E-commerce, millions of users, billions of rows for products
# Related Table
- aww hell nah, it's pandas / excel spreadsheet type beat.
- e.g. Table of Students
	- Indexed by student ID
	- Columns/Attributes of name, classes, grades, etc.
# Schemas
- Relation Schema = relation (table)
# Naming Convention
- Table Names: ALL_CAPS
- Column Names: CamelCase
# Database Applications
- 2 sides
	- Form (to add rows)
	- Report (to search)
- While convert GUI interactions to SQL for DBMS
# Microsoft Access
- A personal, low scale Database System
- Access allows the user to build a Database Application
	- The enterprise classes (e.g. Oracle) will let the dev code up their own to SQL into BMS
	- Oracle is considered the best, but hardest to use. Then it's IDM's, Microsoft, and MySQL.
# Brief History of Database Processing
- The Relational Model emerged 1980s
- There has been Object-Oriented in 1985, Open-Source, XML & Web services in 1998 to now, but Relational Model is still prevailing.
- There is also Big Data, but it's more like a different field than Databases, needing a lot of concurrent temporary / throw away processing.
## Relational Model
- 1970 by E. F. Codd
- Based on Relational Algebra