# Why Indexing?
- Query optimizer is pretty cool, but we can make it better by indexing.
- There are 2 indexing types:
	- Clustered Index
	- Non-clustered Index
- Building the index correctly can lower your performance from $O(n)$ to  $O(\log(n))$.
	- Think of B-Tree VS BST. BST is $O(\log(n))$ because of its sorted children invariant.
		- However, if data is on disk you can't use BST as you have to read a whole disk page.
		- DBMS uses a balanced B+ Tree, which can do sorted children invariant.
		- B+ Tree's node can be a disk page's worth and that would be pretty optimized.
- When a table has no indexes, data is sequential on disk.
	- This would mean $O(n)$ find.
- Underlying structure uses Hash Tables paired with B+ Tree
# Indexing Type
## Clustered Index
- Where the B+ Tree's leaves are full records and are doubly linked to each other
	- Allowing for queries like "10 < ID < 20" to be O(logn (from root to leave "10") + k ($20 - 10$)), which Non-clustered can't do.
## Non-clustered index
- Where the B+ Tree's leaves points to the full record elsewhere.
	- This allows for deeper index B+ Trees to more efficient than the Non-clustered
## DMBS Allows Both
- The user can only create 1 Clustered Index. Anymore indexes created using different columns will be Non-clustered pointing to that first Clustered Index leaves (aka the full record)
- Since DBMS can't stored a pointer to storage address (OS storage management doesn't allow), DBMS stores the Clustered index as the pointer. This means $\log(n) + \log(n)$ to find a full record through a secondary Non-clustered index
- Non-clustered is the default type if user doesn't specify.
- If needing to search through a Secondary Non-clustered index, is it better to do that with $O(k\log(n))$, or $O(n)$ search through the Clustered Index?
	- The query optimizer will evaluate $k$ to see if it is better than $n$
- You should maintain the indexes by shrinking indexes and identity keys
# Which to Index?
- Say you have a STUDENT entity with (ID, FName, LName, SSN, Grade, Level)
	- The best index to pick is... it actually depends you which one is used in SELECT the most
# SQL
- "CREATE \[CLUSTERED, NONCLUSTERED\] INDEX \[IndexName\] ON \[TableName\]"
# "CREATE INDEX IndexName ON Table(A, B)"
- Will make index (default Non-clustered) on A column, where ties are resolved with B.
# Performance
- Indexes will not slow down search queries performance.
- Indexes will slow down INSERT, UPDATE, and other table manipulation queries as it needs to optimize the B+ Tree.
## JOIN
- Joining to tables with indexes, the query optimizer might choose to use a hash table instead, in order to compare for equality. (TODO unsure)
## Benefits
- Depends on size & layout of table
- Data distribution .
	- If not uniform, you should build an index.
- Query vs Update call amount.
	- A static table is more beneficial for an index.
	- (This also means it's better to create a table with all of it's data, then indexing)
# Data Types and Indexes
- 