# Gradle
- A build system to automatically compile and manage plugins.
- Makes autogenerated classes for dev to call in their java classes like Javascript getting HTML elements.
# Activities
- Process -> Activities -> Fragments -> View Groups -> Views
- An Activity is started by an Intent
	- Lab1's Intent came from the OS when we start up the app.
	- Activities can send an Intent to another Activity (even of another app), which passes data between Activities.
- Using the AppCompatActivity's default constructor is enough, don't worry about it.
- "activity_main" creates an empty fullscreen layout and accesses the "nav_graph" for later.
	- In MainActivity.java, setContentView() in onCreate() is when all the objects get instantiated.
# ViewBinding
- Instead of a method like Javascript to get a View by ID, Gradle does ViewBinding, which gives an object with fields to access all Views of a Fragment.
# Fragments
- Instead of onCreate(), focus on onCreateVIew(), as is like a constructor type beat. We want to only create the View there (and sneak in mBinding creation).
	- onViewCreate() executes right after, do your stuff there.
# Navigation
- The nav_graph defines paths (actions) that a Fragment can switch to another Fragment.
	- In the Fragment, they can call those paths to navigate.
	- A path can include arguments for Fragments to pass to destination Fragments.
- The nav_graph defines the starting Fragment.
- e.g. "FirstFragment" & "SecondFragment" Gradle Fragment class
	- <u>Direction:</u> "directions = FirstFragmentDirections.actionFirstFragmentToSecondFragment(message);"
		- You puts args to pass over in the parentheses
	- <u>Navigate:</u> "Navigation.findNavController(getView()).navigate(directions)"
	- <u>In the desitnation Fragment, get the args:</u> SecondFragmentArgs.fromBundle(getArguments())
	- <u>Getting the "message":</u> args.getMessage()
		- It's name that way because of the nav_graph argument names.
- There is a back-stack that accumulates as the user navigates between Fragments.
	- A user can click/swipe back, and it would pop off the stack to return to the previous screen.
	- SO, you don't need a back button